.TH VINMAIL 1 "2026" "vinmail 1.0.0" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
vinmail \- interactive terminal mail client for msmtp with multi-account and GPG support

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vinmail

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vinmail
is a lightweight, Bash-based terminal mail client built on top of msmtp.
It provides an interactive TUI for managing multiple email accounts and
composing and sending mail directly from the terminal.

Navigation is performed using arrow keys or j/k, Enter to select, and q to cancel.

.SH FEATURES
.TP
.B Multi-account management
Add, switch, edit, rename, and delete accounts with a guided interface.

.TP
.B Interactive mail composition
Compose messages using $EDITOR with support for To, Cc, Bcc, and Subject fields.

.TP
.B GPG integration
Optional GPG encryption for password storage and message signing.

.TP
.B SMTP configuration
Predefined presets and automatic TLS configuration for common providers.

.SH MENU OPTIONS
.TP
.B Switch active account
Set the current account by copying its configuration to ~/.msmtprc.

.TP
.B Add account
Launch an interactive setup wizard. Leaving a prompt empty aborts the process.

.TP
.B Edit account
Modify configuration, update password, rename alias, view settings, or test SMTP.

.TP
.B Delete account
Remove an account and its credentials. Requires typing 'yes' to confirm.

.TP
.B Send mail
Open $EDITOR to compose a message and send it via the active account.

.TP
.B Status
Display all configured accounts and their encryption status.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/vinmail/
User data directory containing account configs, registry, and logs.

.TP
.I ~/.msmtprc
Active msmtp configuration managed by vinmail.

.SH AUTHOR
Written by VintellX.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR msmtp (1),
.BR gpg (1)
